In our life experience,
there are many people we do not forget
—both good and bad.
But those we delight to call to mind,
or remember,
are the people most important
and most loved to us.
This is true of Jehovah as well.
He knows everyone who has ever lived
—righteous and unrighteous—
and he will resurrect millions of them.
But what he finds the greatest delight in
is remembering those with strong faith
who became his friends,
including many faithful women.
His Word is filled with accounts of women
who had strong faith.
This symposium will consider
faithful women from the past
with various backgrounds.
We will learn why they needed faith,
how they showed faith,
and how all of us can imitate their faith.
We begin with the faithful woman, Sarah.
Sarah needed faith.
Why?
Well, because like her husband, Abraham,
Sarah accepted a nomadic lifestyle
when Jehovah directed them to do so.
Hebrews 11:8 says of Abraham
that “by faith [he] . . . obeyed
by going out to a place
“[that] he was to receive
as an inheritance . . . ,
although not knowing where he was going.”
What was true for Abraham
was true for Sarah as well.
Along with Abraham, she complied
with Jehovah’s direction
and she left the prosperous city of Ur.
She no doubt had
to leave behind her relatives
as well as material advantages.
We read at Genesis 12:1
that Abraham was told:
“Go out from your land
and away from your relatives.”
Such moves are never easy.
Actually, moving is known to be
one of the most stressful things
that people must do at times,
especially when it involves moving away
from friends and relatives.
Yes, Sarah needed faith, and she had it.
She cooperated with her husband’s direction,
which meant accepting
a completely different way of life.
Her obedience revealed
her strong faith in Jehovah.
As you watch the following video,
imagine the challenges that Sarah faced.
Life in Ur was comfortable.
We had all the modern conveniences.
Then Jehovah gave us
an assignment we never expected
—one that meant saying goodbye
to the life we loved.
But rather than look behind,
Abraham and I looked ahead.
We had seen Jehovah’s hand in our lives,
and we knew he would be with us
every step of the journey.
And he was in ways that surprised us
—ways we never could have imagined.
Jehovah did more than help us;
he fulfilled his every promise.
As accurately depicted in that video,
how did Sarah show faith?
She showed faith by looking ahead.
She also reflected on what Jehovah
had already done for them.
Abraham and Sarah had seen
Jehovah’s hand in their lives.
They were his friends.
They had obeyed before,
and Jehovah had confidence
in their obedience now.
As a woman of strong faith,
Sarah trusted that Jehovah would continue
to be with them in their new assignment.
She willingly gave up the comforts
and conveniences of Ur,
and her faith in God did not go unrewarded.
In time, she received a blessing
that she never could have anticipated.
Sarah’s faith in Jehovah
led to the birth of Isaac.
What made this blessing especially remarkable
is described for us at Hebrews 11:11, 12.
Let’s read those verses.
Hebrews chapter 11
lists a number of faithful servants of God.
Sarah is mentioned along with Abraham.
As we read starting in verse 11,
notice how the focus is on faith:
“By faith also Sarah received power
to conceive offspring,
“even when she was past the age,
“since she considered Him faithful
who made the promise.
“For this reason, from one man
who was as good as dead,
“there were born children,
as many as the stars of heaven in number
and as innumerable
as the sands by the seaside.”
So, what remarkable blessing
did Sarah receive as a result of her faith?
The “power to conceive offspring,
even when she was past the age,” it said.
But how specifically did she show faith?
She showed faith
because “she considered Him faithful
who had made the promise.”
Sarah had faith in Jehovah’s promise
that Abraham would become the father to many.
Abraham needed faith, but so did Sarah.
And because they both had such faith,
verse 12 says:
“For this reason, . . .
there were born children.”
Now, some might say,
‘But I recall from the Scriptures
that Sarah laughed when she heard
that she would give birth?’
True.
But was that because she lacked faith?
Not at all.
We read a moment ago
that Sarah considered Jehovah faithful.
In other words, she trusted him.
So, what happened?
Well, evidently, the thought
of giving birth at her age
struck her as being so unusual
that she could not hold back
from laughing to herself.
So while she was only all too human,
she was undeniably a woman of strong faith.
Years later, Sarah’s faith
in Jehovah’s promise concerning Isaac
moved her to speak up when 5-year-old Isaac
was persecuted, or bullied,
by 19-year-old Ishmael.
She saw a real threat
to the well-being of Isaac,
and her faith reminded her
that Isaac was more than just her son.
He was assigned a key role
in Jehovah’s purpose.
So she mustered up courage
and spoke up in his defense.
Strong faith helps us to do many things.
In the following dramatization,
take note of how a husband and wife
show faith like that of Abraham and Sarah.
Saying goodbye
is never easy.
And even though we were excited
about our new LDC assignment,
it was going to take us farther
than we’d ever been.
It wasn’t just a new routine;
it was a whole new way of life!
With each new move and project,
we thought about Sarah.
She focused on the good things ahead
and not on what she’d left behind.
And that’s what we tried to do.
Jehovah has been so good to us.
We didn’t always know
where the next project would take us,
but we did know that Jehovah would be with us
every step of the way.
As demonstrated in that video,
we can strengthen our faith
by meditating on Jehovah’s goodness
to his people in the past
and his goodness to his people today.
Take time to meditate
on how Jehovah has helped you
when you’ve made sacrifices in his service.
As the sister in the video stated,
‘Sarah focused on the good things ahead
and not on what she had left behind.’
We show faith like that of Sarah’s
when we support the decisions that are made
by God’s organization today.
Imitate Sarah’s faith,
and follow Jehovah’s direction closely.
When we are obedient to Jehovah’s direction,
then as Hebrews 13:17 states,
the brothers may carry out
their responsibilities
“with joy and not with sighing.”
For married sisters, this means
displaying a Sarah-like spirit
in their marriage.
A Christian wife respects
and supports her husband
in doing Jehovah’s will.
The apostle Peter wrote that such a spirit
has “great value in the eyes of God.”
What are some of the many ways
in which sisters today
display faith like Sarah’s?
Well, many Christian women of strong faith
are supportive of their husbands
in the circuit work.
Many others leave family behind
when accepting an assignment
from Local/Design Construction
or the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
And many sisters serving at Bethel
do so far away from their families.
And this is true of single sisters as well.
All of these, and many more,
show Sarah-like faith
by trusting in Jehovah’s loving care
and making themselves available
in his service.
We are confident that Jehovah sees
these acts of faith.
Hebrews 13:16 says
that “God is well-pleased
with such sacrifices.”
So see their example,
and imitate their faith.
Brother James Mantz,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
will now present the next talk
in this symposium,
“Imitate Women of Strong Faith!—Rahab.”